

01 Introduction to C# and Data Types
Understanding Data Types
Test your Knowledge

1. What type would you choose for the following “numbers”?
A person’s telephone number
A person’s height
A person’s age
A person’s gender (Male, Female, Prefer Not To Answer)
A person’s salary
A book’s ISBN
A book’s price
A book’s shipping weight
A country’s population
The number of stars in the universe
The number of employees in each of the small or medium businesses in the
United Kingdom (up to about 50,000 employees per business)


A:
Telephone Number	string	
Height	double/float	decimal
Age	int	byte 
Gender	enum	string
Salary	decimal	double 
ISBN	string	
Book Price	decimal	
Shipping Weight	double/float,	decimal 
Country Population	int	long 
Stars in Universe	BigInteger	
Employees per UK SME	int	short 

2. What are the difference between value type and reference type variables? What is
boxing and unboxing?

A:
Value Types
Stored directly in memory .
Hold the actual data


Reference Type:
Stored in the heap
Hold the reference to the data

Boxing
Converting a value type to a reference type.
Stores the value on the heap 

Unboxing
Converting a boxed value type back to its original type.
Requires explicit casting

3. What is meant by the terms managed resource and unmanaged resource in .NET

A:
Managed resource
 Resources that are automatically managed by the .NET 
Garbage Collection : 
No manual cleanup needed .

Unmanaged resource
Resources not controlled by the CLR and require manual cleanup.
File handles .
Database connections 

4. Whats the purpose of Garbage Collector in .NET?

A.
garbage collectro automatically manages memory
 it alllocate space in heap when creating an object
- reclaim unused memory: unsued object that is not reference anymore 
- handle manage resource

Controlling Flow and Converting Types
Test your Knowledge

1.What happens when you divide an int variable by 0
Dividing an int (or any integral type like byte, short, long) by zero in C# causes a runtime exception:

A:
System.DivideByZeroException 

2. 
What happens when you divide a double variable by 0?

A:
In C#, dividing a double by 0 does not throw an exception. It returns a special IEEE 754 floating-point value like infinity, depending on the operands:

3. What happens when you overflow an int variable, that is, set it to a value beyond its
range?

A: Overflowing an int (32-bit signed integer) wraps around by default (e.g., int.MaxValue + 1 becomes int.MinValue)

4. What is the difference between x = y++; and x = ++y;?
A:
x = y++;	Post-increment: use y, then increment
Pre-increment: increment y, then use it

5. What is the difference between break, continue, and return when used inside a loop
statement?
A:
break will break the loop
continue will skip current iteration
return will return the function.

6.What are the three parts of a for statement and which of them are required?
A:
initialization; condition; iteration, all are optional

7. What is the difference between the = and == operators?
A:
= mean assign
== mean compare and return boolean value

8. Does the following statement compile? for ( ; true; ) ;

A:Yes

9:+ What does the underscore _ represent in a switch expression?
A:
underscore _ is a discard pattern and acts as a default case, matching any value that wasn’t matched by earlier cases.


10: What interface must an object implement to be enumerated over by using the foreach
statement?

A:
IEnumerable or IEnumerable<T>